en/dev_setup/dev_env_mac.md, before:

# MacOS Development Environment

The following instructions set up a PX4 development environment for macOS.
This environment can be used to build PX4 for:

- Pixhawk and other NuttX-based hardware
- [Gazebo Classic Simulation](../sim_gazebo_classic/index.md)

:::tip
This setup is supported by the PX4 dev team.
To build other targets you will need to use a [different OS](../dev_setup/dev_env.md#supported-targets) (or an [unsupported development environment](../advanced/community_supported_dev_env.md)).
:::

## Video Guide

<lite-youtube videoid="tMbMGiMs1cQ" title="Setting up your PX4 development environment on macOS"/>

## Base Setup

The "base" macOS setup installs the tools needed for building firmware, and includes the common tools that will be needed for installing/using the simulators.

### Environment Setup

:::details Apple Silicon Macbook users!
If you have an Apple M1, M2 etc. Macbook, make sure to run the terminal as x86 by setting up an x86 terminal:

1. Locate the Terminal application within the Utilities folder (**Finder > Go menu > Utilities**)
2. Select _Terminal.app_ and right-click on it, then choose **Duplicate**.
3. Rename the duplicated Terminal app, e.g. to _x86 Terminal_
4. Now select the renamed _x86 Terminal_ app and right-click and choose \*_Get Info_
5. Check the box for **Open using Rosetta**, then close the window
6. Run the _x86 Terminal_ as usual, which will fully support the current PX4 toolchain
   :::

First set up the environment

1. Enable more open files by appending the following line to the `~/.zshenv` file (creating it if necessary):

   ```sh
   echo ulimit -S -n 2048 >> ~/.zshenv
   ```

   ::: info
   If you don't do this, the build toolchain may report the error: `"LD: too many open files"`
   :::

1. Enforce Python 3 by appending the following lines to `~/.zshenv`

   ```sh
   # Point pip3 to MacOS system python 3 pip
   alias pip3=/usr/bin/pip3
   ```

### Common Tools

To setup the environment to be able to build for Pixhawk/NuttX hardware (and install the common tools for using simulators):

1. Install Homebrew by following these [installation instructions](https://brew.sh).
1. Run these commands in your shell to install the common tools:

   ```sh
   brew tap PX4/px4
   brew install px4-dev
   ```

1. Install the required Python packages:

   ```sh
   # install required packages using pip3
   python3 -m pip install --user pyserial empty toml numpy pandas jinja2 pyyaml pyros-genmsg packaging kconfiglib future jsonschema
   # if this fails with a permissions error, your Python install is in a system path - use this command instead:
   sudo -H python3 -m pip install --user pyserial empty toml numpy pandas jinja2 pyyaml pyros-genmsg packaging kconfiglib future jsonschema
   ```

## Gazebo Classic Simulation

To setup the environment for [Gazebo Classic](../sim_gazebo_classic/index.md) simulation:

1. Run the following commands in your shell:

   ```sh
   brew unlink tbb
   sed -i.bak '/disable! date:/s/^/  /; /disable! date:/s/./#/3' $(brew --prefix)/Library/Taps/homebrew/homebrew-core/Formula/tbb@2020.rb
   brew install tbb@2020
   brew link tbb@2020
   ```

   ::: info
   September 2021: The commands above are a workaround to this bug: [PX4-Autopilot#17644](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/issues/17644).
   They can be removed once it is fixed (along with this note).
   :::

1. To install SITL simulation with Gazebo Classic:

   ```sh
   brew install --cask temurin
   brew install --cask xquartz
   brew install px4-sim-gazebo
   ```

1. Run the macOS setup script: `PX4-Autopilot/Tools/setup/macos.sh`
   The easiest way to do this is to clone the PX4 source, and then run the script from the directory, as shown:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot.git --recursive
   cd PX4-Autopilot/Tools/setup
   sh macos.sh
   ```


## Next Steps

Once you have finished setting up the command-line toolchain:

- Install [VSCode](../dev_setup/vscode.md) (if you prefer using an IDE to the command line).
- Install the [QGroundControl Daily Build](../dev_setup/qgc_daily_build.md)

  :::tip
  The _daily build_ includes development tools that are hidden in release builds.
  It may also provide access to new PX4 features that are not yet supported in release builds.
  :::

- Continue to the [build instructions](../dev_setup/building_px4.md).

Commit message:

Update macOS instructions for macOS Ventura and later
macOS Ventura and Later no longer allow Terminal duplication, this is the workaround

en/dev_setup/dev_env_mac.md, after:

# MacOS Development Environment

The following instructions set up a PX4 development environment for macOS.
This environment can be used to build PX4 for:

- Pixhawk and other NuttX-based hardware
- [Gazebo Classic Simulation](../sim_gazebo_classic/index.md)

:::tip
This setup is supported by the PX4 dev team.
To build other targets you will need to use a [different OS](../dev_setup/dev_env.md#supported-targets) (or an [unsupported development environment](../advanced/community_supported_dev_env.md)).
:::

## Video Guide

<lite-youtube videoid="tMbMGiMs1cQ" title="Setting up your PX4 development environment on macOS"/>

## Base Setup

The "base" macOS setup installs the tools needed for building firmware, and includes the common tools that will be needed for installing/using the simulators.

### Environment Setup

:::details Apple Silicon Macbook users!
If you have an Apple M1, M2 etc. Macbook, make sure to run the terminal as x86 by setting up an x86 terminal. Note, Apple no longer allows duplication of the terminal application in macOS Ventura and later so two sets of instructions are provided.

Pre macOS Ventura:

1. Locate the Terminal application within the Utilities folder (**Finder > Go menu > Utilities**)
2. Select _Terminal.app_ and right-click on it, then choose **Duplicate**.
3. Rename the duplicated Terminal app, e.g. to _x86 Terminal_
4. Now select the renamed _x86 Terminal_ app and right-click and choose \*_Get Info_
5. Check the box for **Open using Rosetta**, then close the window
6. Run the _x86 Terminal_ as usual, which will fully support the current PX4 toolchain
   :::

macOS Ventura and Later:

1. Locate and open the Terminal application within the Utilities folder
2. Type sudo nano ~/.zshrc
3. Add:
       alias arm="env /usr/bin/arch -arm64 /bin/zsh --login"
       alias intel="env /usr/bin/arch -x86_64 /bin/zsh --login"
4. Save and clode the .zshrc (this adds aliases to switch between ARM and Intel architectures within a single Terminal instance).
5. Type source ~/.zshrc in the Terminal window.
6. Now you can switch between Intel and Arm architectures by simply typing arm or intel in the Terminal window. You will need to type intel when building PX4.

  Note: You can also force the Terminal application to always open using Rosetta (aka Intel architecture) by right-clicking on the Terminal application and  and choosing \*_Get Info_ and selecting the check the box for **Open using Rosetta** but this is not recomended.
   


First set up the environment

1. Enable more open files by appending the following line to the `~/.zshenv` file (creating it if necessary):

   ```sh
   echo ulimit -S -n 2048 >> ~/.zshenv
   ```

   ::: info
   If you don't do this, the build toolchain may report the error: `"LD: too many open files"`
   :::

1. Enforce Python 3 by appending the following lines to `~/.zshenv`

   ```sh
   # Point pip3 to MacOS system python 3 pip
   alias pip3=/usr/bin/pip3
   ```

### Common Tools

To setup the environment to be able to build for Pixhawk/NuttX hardware (and install the common tools for using simulators):

1. Install Homebrew by following these [installation instructions](https://brew.sh).
1. Run these commands in your shell to install the common tools:

   ```sh
   brew tap PX4/px4
   brew install px4-dev
   ```

1. Install the required Python packages:

   ```sh
   # install required packages using pip3
   python3 -m pip install --user pyserial empty toml numpy pandas jinja2 pyyaml pyros-genmsg packaging kconfiglib future jsonschema
   # if this fails with a permissions error, your Python install is in a system path - use this command instead:
   sudo -H python3 -m pip install --user pyserial empty toml numpy pandas jinja2 pyyaml pyros-genmsg packaging kconfiglib future jsonschema
   ```

## Gazebo Classic Simulation

To setup the environment for [Gazebo Classic](../sim_gazebo_classic/index.md) simulation:

1. Run the following commands in your shell:

   ```sh
   brew unlink tbb
   sed -i.bak '/disable! date:/s/^/  /; /disable! date:/s/./#/3' $(brew --prefix)/Library/Taps/homebrew/homebrew-core/Formula/tbb@2020.rb
   brew install tbb@2020
   brew link tbb@2020
   ```

   ::: info
   September 2021: The commands above are a workaround to this bug: [PX4-Autopilot#17644](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/issues/17644).
   They can be removed once it is fixed (along with this note).
   :::

1. To install SITL simulation with Gazebo Classic:

   ```sh
   brew install --cask temurin
   brew install --cask xquartz
   brew install px4-sim-gazebo
   ```

1. Run the macOS setup script: `PX4-Autopilot/Tools/setup/macos.sh`
   The easiest way to do this is to clone the PX4 source, and then run the script from the directory, as shown:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot.git --recursive
   cd PX4-Autopilot/Tools/setup
   sh macos.sh
   ```


## Next Steps

Once you have finished setting up the command-line toolchain:

- Install [VSCode](../dev_setup/vscode.md) (if you prefer using an IDE to the command line).
- Install the [QGroundControl Daily Build](../dev_setup/qgc_daily_build.md)

  :::tip
  The _daily build_ includes development tools that are hidden in release builds.
  It may also provide access to new PX4 features that are not yet supported in release builds.
  :::

- Continue to the [build instructions](../dev_setup/building_px4.md).
