# Obstacle Avoidance

*Obstacle Avoidance* enables a vehicle to navigate around obstacles when following a preplanned path.
This feature is intended for automatic modes where an endpoint destination is known. 
It is currently supported for multicopter vehicles in [Missions](#mission_mode) and [Offboard mode](#offboard_mode).

This topic explains how the feature is set up and enabled in both modes.

> **Tip** Manual modes instead use the much simpler *Collision Avoidance* approach, which simply stops the vehicle from crashing into obstacles.


## Offboard Mode Avoidance {#offboard_mode}

PX4 supports collision avoidance in [Offboard mode](flight_modes/offboard.md), where the original planned route comes from a [ROS](http://dev.px4.io/en/ros/) node running on a companion computer, and then passed into an obstacle avoidance module (another ROS node).
The avoidance node sends the final computed path to the flight stack using the `SET_POSITION_TARGET_LOCAL_NED` message.

The flight controller must be in Offboard mode.

The *local_planner* avoidance software must be running on the companion computer.
This is set up as described in the [Intel Aero](../flight_controller/intel_aero.md) section on [Obstacle Avoidance](../flight_controller/intel_aero.md#obstacle-avoidance) and in the [PX4/avoidance](https://github.com/PX4/avoidance#obstacle-detection-and-avoidance) Github repo.

The tested hardware/software platform is [Intel Aero](../flight_controller/intel_aero.md) (setup as per linked topic).


## Mission Mode Avoidance {#mission_mode}

PX4 supports object avoidance in [Missions](../flight_modes/mission.md).

On a correctly setup vehicle, object avoidance is enabled by [setting](../advanced_config/parameters.md) the `MPC_OBS_AVOID` to 1.


### Overview

The planned route is sent to an obstacle avoidance system running on a companion computer.
When an obstacle is detected, the avoidance software returns a stream of setpoints that the vehicle can follow to navigate around the obstacle.
The MAVLink [Obstacle Avoidance Protocol](TBD) is used for communicating with the avoidance software.

PX4 itself puts no particular constraints on the companion hardware or software.

The tested setup is:
* Hardware: [Intel Aero](../flight_controller/intel_aero.md) with RealSense camera
* Avoidance software: *local_planner* ROS node.
  * This is set up as described in the section on [Obstacle Avoidance](../flight_controller/intel_aero.md#obstacle-avoidance) and in the [PX4/avoidance](https://github.com/PX4/avoidance#obstacle-detection-and-avoidance) Github repo.



Additional details about the PX4 and companion implementation are provided below.


### Mission Progression

The mission logic is handled by the navigator in the same as for flight without obstacle avoidance a part for two differences:
- in normal missions the vehicle has to reach a waypoint with a certain heading (the vehicle is supposed to reach the waypoint in a straight line from the previous waypoint plus a smaller error). 
  When obstacle avoidance is active, this constraint cannot be fulfilled because the obstacle avoidance algorithm has full control of the vehicle heading such that the vehicle always move in the current field of view. 
  Therefore a waypoint is always reached when the vehicle is within the acceptance radius regardless of its heading
- navigator updates the triplets when the vehicle has reached the acceptance radius of each waypoint. 
  If a waypoint is inside an obstacle it can happen that it’s never reach and the mission will be stuck. 
  If the vehicle projection on the line previous-current waypoint has passed the current waypoint, the acceptance radius is enlarged such that the current waypoint is set as reached
- same concept as before the the altitude acceptance of a waypoint. 
  If the vehicle is either above or below a waypoint (within the x-y acceptance radius), the altitude acceptance is modified such that the mission progresses
  

###  Mission Mode Avoidance Interface

When a mission is uploaded from QGC and the parameter MPC_OBS_AVOID is set to True, the Firmware fills the uORB message `vehicle_trajectory_waypoint_desired` in the following way.

Array `waypoints`:
_index 0 :_
- position: x-y-z NED vehicle local position
- velocity: x-y-z NED velocity setpoint generated by the active FlightTask
- Acceleration: vehicle acceleration
- Yaw: vehicle yaw
- Yaw_speed: NaN

_index 1:_
- position: x-y-z NED local coordinates of the current mission waypoint
- Velocity: NaN
- Acceleration: NaN
- Yaw: yaw setpoint
- Yaw_speed: yaw speed setpoint

_Index2:_
- position: x-y-z NED local coordinates of the next mission waypoint
- Velocity: NaN
- Acceleration: NaN
- Yaw: yaw setpoint
- Yaw_speed: yaw speed setpoint

The remaining indices are filled with NaN. 

The message vehicle_trajectory_waypoint_desired` is mapped into the MAVLink message `TRAJECTORY_REPRESENTATION_WAYPOINTS`. The messages are sent at 5Hz.

MAVROS translates the MAVLink message into a ROS message called mavros_msgs::trajectory and does the conversion from NED to ENU frames. Messages are published on the ROS topic `/mavros/trajectory/desired`

On the avoidance side, the algorithm plans a path to the waypoint.

The position or velocity setpoints generated by the obstacle avoidance to get collision free to the waypoint can be sent to the Firmware with two ROS messages:
mavros_msgs::trajectory (both velocity and position set points) on ROS topic /mavros/trajectory/generated
nav_msgs::Path (only position setpoints) on ROS topic /mavros/trajectory/path

MAVROS converts the set points from ENU to NED frame and translates the ROS messages into a MAVLink message `TRAJECTORY_REPRESENTATION_WAYPOINTS`.

On the Firmware side, incoming `TRAJECTORY_REPRESENTATION_WAYPOINTS` are translated into uORB `vehicle_trajectory_waypoint` messages. The array waypoints contains all NAN expect for index 0:
- Position: position setpoint
- Velocity: velocity setpoint
- acceleration: NaN (acceleration setpoints are not supported by the Firmware)
- Yaw: yaw setpoint
- Yaw_speed: yaw speed setpoint

The setpoints are tracked by the multicopter position controller.




## Further Information

<!-- @mrivi is expert! -->
<!-- Issue with discussion : https://github.com/PX4/Devguide/issues/530 -->
<!-- PR for mavlink docs: https://github.com/mavlink/mavlink-devguide/pull/133 -->

