# ATL Mantis EDU

:::warning
The ATL Mantis EDU is currently work in progress. Use with caution.
:::

The ATL Mantis EDU is based on the ready-to-fly Yuneec Mantis G and geared towards education.

## Purchase

The ATL Mantis EDU version will be released soon.
TODO: add purchase link

## Hardware overview

The Mantis broadly features the following hardware components:
- Autopilot/FMU based on STM32F7.
- Gimbal controller.
- Camera system on a chip with WiFi (forwards MAVLink messages from autopilot and gimbal via Wifi)
- Downward-facing flow module with laser range sensor.

## Update components

The files to update the Mantis can currently be found on [GoogleDrive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1tDo9AktWtB47LRzaRaMxDkONTNQHsjCG).

### Update camera

1. Place camera image `firmware.bin` on the SD card.
2. Power up the drone. It will reboot and update automatically.
3. Wait until the WiFi re-appears and re-connect.

Note: if the file has been removed from the SD card, the camera has successfully been updated.

### Update gimbal

1. Place the gimbal image `gimbal.yuneec` on the SD card.
2. Power up the drone. The gimbal will be automatically updated.
3. After the update, you might hear a faint beep of the gimbal starting up again.

Note: if the file has been renamed to `gimbal.yuneec.updated` the update was successful. If not, you should find a file `gimbal_update.log` with more details.

### Update autopilot (PX4)

1. Place the autopilot.px4 file on the SD card.
2. Power up the drone. The autopilot will be automatically updated.
3. After the update, you should hear PX4 starting up by the usual beeps.

Note: if the file has been renamed to `autopilot.px4.updated` the update was successful. If not, you should find a file `autopilot_update.log` with more details.

## Developing PX4 Firmware

To build PX4 for the Mantis, use:
```
make atl_mantis-edu
```

To update the PX4 firmware, copy the file `build/atl_mantis-edu_default/atl_mantis-edu_default.px4` to the SD card, rename it to `autopilot.px4`, and start it up.

TODO: support easy upload via WiFi.

## Using MAVSDK with the Mantis

By default MAVSDK connects via MAVLink on UDP port 14540. This port is configured for the Mantis, so MAVSDK examples and tests should mostly work out of the box.

TODO: Add more detailed tutorial how to use MAVSDK with the Mantis.

## Connection

You can either connect to the drone using WiFi, or using a USB cable connected to the remote control. The latter part is work in progress.

You can also access the SD card and the internal storage by connecting to the drone using a USB-C cable. Note that the WiFi will be switched off when USB is connected.

### Mavlink connection

Mavlink traffic is sent via Wifi on 3 different ports:

1. UDP port 14550: to QGC default auto-connect.
2. UDP port 14540: to SDK (MAVSDK, MAVROS) default connection.
3. UDP port 14530: to RC controller.

### Http connection

#### Download photos/videos from internal storage or SD card

There is an http server running on 192.168.42.1 where you can view or download the media files from.

#### Upload files to SD card

You can upload files to the SD card when connected to the WiFi of the drone.

The command to upload a file is:
```sh
curl -F "image=@$HOME/path/to/file.ext" -H "Expect:" http://192.168.42.1/cgi-bin/upload
```

For bigger (multi-part) upload, use:
```sh
curl -F "image=@$HOME/path/to/big-file.ext" -H "Expect:" -H "File-Size: $(stat -c%s $HOME/path/to/big-file.ext)" http://192.168.42.1/cgi-bin/upload
```

### RTSP connection

Video is streamed at 1280x720 at 30 Hz over RTSP. QGC should connect automatically, as Mantis broadcasts the stream parameters using the [VIDEO_STREAM_INFORMATION](https://mavlink.io/en/messages/common.html#VIDEO_STREAM_INFORMATION) MAVLink message.

If you want to connect manually, you can do so on `rtsp://192.168.42.1:554/live`.

## FAQ

### Mavlink and the camera don't connect anymore even though WiFi is connected. What is going on?

You can try resetting the camera by pressing a paperclip into the small hole above the SD card slot for 5 seconds. The camera should reboot and reset some of its internal settings.

### The WiFi does not come up. Why?

Is there a chance you have USB connected? It is either WiFi or USB, not both at the same time.

### The beeps/sound are not working during flight. Why?

The beeps are generated by the motors. Therefore, if the motors are spinning, it's not possible to generate beeps.

### How can I switch between the internal storage and the SD card?

The primary storage can be selected in QGC. Connect to drone via WiFi, start QGC, and go to the camera settings (gear icon next to camera buttons on the right of the screen). There, you should find the option to select the storage.

### Can I upload the PX4 firmware by connecting over USB?

No, this is not possible. You can however, copy the `build/atl_mantis-edu_default/atl_mantis-edu_default.px4` file on SD card and rename it to autopilot.px4. If you then power up the Mantis, it will flash the file automatically.

### Why does it take over a minute for the WiFi / connection to appear?

The Mantis uses DFS channels on 5 GHz. In order to be allowed to use these channels, the wifi module needs to listen on these frequency bands for some time to make sure they are not occupied by radars, and other official users. Once it is verified that the bands are unoccopied, the WiFi will start.

TODO: check if this is required in the US

## How to get Technical Support

For hardware issues, please contact TODO: add vendor.

Please get in contact with Daniel Agar or Julian Oes on [PX4 slack](https://slack.px4.io/).
